src/Docs/Resources/v2/30-theme-guide/50-scss.md, before:

[titleEn]: <>(SCSS and Styling)
[hash]: <>(article:theme_scss)

The style sheets are written in [SASS](https://sass-lang.com/). The organization is inspired by the [7-1 pattern](https://sass-guidelin.es/#architecture) structure. 

```bash
<platform/src/Storefront/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss>
└── abstract
└── base
└── component
└── layout
└── page
└── skin
└── vendor
└── base.scss
```

By default, Shopware 6 looks inside `<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss` folder of your plugin to load a `base.scss` file.

To try it out, open up the `base.scss` file in the folder mentioned above.

Inside of the `.scss` file, add some styles like this.

```scss
// src/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss
body {
    background: blue;
}
```

Too see if it's working you have to re-build the storefront. Use the following command to do that.

```bash
# run this to re-compile the current storefront theme
$ ./psh.phar storefront:build

# or run this to start a watch-mode (the storefront will re-compile when you make sytle changes)
$ ./psh.phar storefront:hot-proxy
```

In this example, the background of the `body` will be changed.

## Working with variables

In case you want to use the same color in several places, but want to define it just one time you can use variables for this.

Create a `abstract/variables.scss` file inside your styles folder and define your background color variable.
```scss
// in variables.scss
$sw-storefront-assets-color-background: blue;
```

Inside your `base.scss` file you can now import your previously defined variables and use them:
```scss
// in base.scss
@import 'abstract/variables.scss';

body {
    background: $sw-storefront-assets-color-background;
}
```

This has the advantage that when you want to change the values of your variables you just have one location to change them and the hard coded values are not cluttered all over the codebase.

## Bootstrap

The storefront theme is implemented as a skin on top of the [Boostrap toolkit](https://getbootstrap.com/).

### Override default SCSS variables

To override default variables like for example `$border-radius` from Bootstrap you should use a slightly different approach then explained in the [storefront assets](./../../4-how-to/330-storefront-assets.md) how-to.

Bootstrap 4 is using the `!default` flag for it's own default variables. Variable overrides have to be declared beforehand.

More information: https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/theming/#variable-defaults

To be able to override Bootstrap variables you can define an additional SCSS entry point in your `theme.json` which is declared before `@Storefront`.
This entry point is called `overrides.scss`:

```json
{
  "name": "Just another theme",
  "author": "Just another author",
  "views": [
     "@Storefront",
     "@Plugins",
     "@JustAnotherTheme"
  ],
  "style": [
    "app/storefront/src/scss/overrides.scss", <-- Variable overrides
    "@Storefront",
    "app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss"
  ],
  "script": [
    "@Storefront",
    "app/storefront/dist/storefront/js/just-another-theme.js"
  ],
  "asset": [
    "app/storefront/src/assets"
  ]
}
```

In the `overrides.scss` you can now override default variables like `$border-radius` globally:

```scss
/*
Override variable defaults
==================================================
This file is used to override default SCSS variables from the Shopware Storefront or Bootstrap.

Because of the !default flags, theme variable overrides have to be declared beforehand.
https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/theming/#variable-defaults
*/

$disabled-btn-bg: #f00;
$disabled-btn-border-color: #fc8;
$font-weight-semibold: 300;
$border-radius: 0;
$icon-base-color: #f00;
$modal-backdrop-bg: rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.5);
```

Please only add variable overrides in this file. You should not write CSS code like `.container { background: #f00 }` in this file. When running `storefront:hot` or `storefront:hot-proxy` SCSS variables will be injected dynamically by webpack. When writing selectors and properties in the `overrides.scss` the code can appear multiple times in your built CSS.

### Using Bootstrap SCSS only

The Shopware default theme is using [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) with additional custom styling.

If you want to build your theme only upon the Bootstrap SCSS you can use the `@StorefrontBootstrap` placeholder instead of the `@Storefront` bundle in the `style` section of your `theme.json`.
This gives you the ability to use the Bootstrap SCSS without the Shopware Storefront "skin". Therefore all the SCSS from `src/Storefront/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss/skin` will not be available in your theme.

```json
{
  "style": [
    "@StorefrontBootstrap",
    "app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss"
  ]
}
```
* This option can only be used in the `style` section of the `theme.json`. You must not use it in `views` or `script`.
* All theme variables like `$sw-color-brand-primary` are also available when using the Bootstrap option.
* You can only use either `@StorefrontBootstrap` or `@Storefront`. They should not be used at the same time. The `@Storefront` bundle **includes** the Bootstrap SCSS already.

Commit message:

NEXT-7159 - Modify wording, extend SCSS entry point example

src/Docs/Resources/v2/30-theme-guide/50-scss.md, after:

[titleEn]: <>(SCSS and Styling)
[hash]: <>(article:theme_scss)

The style sheets are written in [SASS](https://sass-lang.com/). The organization is inspired by the [7-1 pattern](https://sass-guidelin.es/#architecture) structure. 

```
<platform/src/Storefront/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss>
└── abstract
└── base
└── component
└── layout
└── page
└── skin
└── vendor
└── base.scss
```

Shopware 6 looks inside your `theme.json` file to find a "style" array which contains all SCSS files which should be loaded by your theme.
By default you get the Shopware Storefront SCSS plus an additional entry point for your own SCSS. You can also extend this array with more SCSS files.

```json
{
  "name": "Just another theme",

  ...

  "style": [
    "@Storefront",
    "app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss" <-- Theme SCSS entry 
  ],

  ...

}
```

To try it out, open up the `base.scss` file in the folder mentioned above.

Inside of the `.scss` file, add some styles like this.

```scss
// src/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss
body {
    background: blue;
}
```

Too see if it's working you have to re-build the storefront. Use the following command to do that.

```bash
# run this to re-compile the current storefront theme
$ ./psh.phar storefront:build

# or run this to start a watch-mode (the storefront will re-compile when you make sytle changes)
$ ./psh.phar storefront:hot-proxy
```

In this example, the background of the `body` will be changed.

## Working with variables

In case you want to use the same color in several places, but want to define it just one time you can use variables for this.

Create a `abstract/variables.scss` file inside your styles folder and define your background color variable.
```scss
// in variables.scss
$sw-storefront-assets-color-background: blue;
```

Inside your `base.scss` file you can now import your previously defined variables and use them:
```scss
// in base.scss
@import 'abstract/variables.scss';

body {
    background: $sw-storefront-assets-color-background;
}
```

This has the advantage that when you want to change the values of your variables you just have one location to change them and the hard coded values are not cluttered all over the codebase.

## Bootstrap

The storefront theme is implemented as a skin on top of the [Boostrap toolkit](https://getbootstrap.com/).

### Override default SCSS variables

To override default variables like for example `$border-radius` from Bootstrap you should use a slightly different approach then explained in the [storefront assets](./../../4-how-to/330-storefront-assets.md) how-to.

Bootstrap 4 is using the `!default` flag for it's own default variables. Variable overrides have to be declared beforehand.

More information: https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/theming/#variable-defaults

To be able to override Bootstrap variables you can define an additional SCSS entry point in your `theme.json` which is declared before `@Storefront`.
This entry point is called `overrides.scss`:

```json
{
  "name": "Just another theme",
  "author": "Just another author",
  "views": [
     "@Storefront",
     "@Plugins",
     "@JustAnotherTheme"
  ],
  "style": [
    "app/storefront/src/scss/overrides.scss", <-- Variable overrides
    "@Storefront",
    "app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss"
  ],
  "script": [
    "@Storefront",
    "app/storefront/dist/storefront/js/just-another-theme.js"
  ],
  "asset": [
    "app/storefront/src/assets"
  ]
}
```

In the `overrides.scss` you can now override default variables like `$border-radius` globally:

```scss
/*
Override variable defaults
==================================================
This file is used to override default SCSS variables from the Shopware Storefront or Bootstrap.

Because of the !default flags, theme variable overrides have to be declared beforehand.
https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.0/getting-started/theming/#variable-defaults
*/

$disabled-btn-bg: #f00;
$disabled-btn-border-color: #fc8;
$font-weight-semibold: 300;
$border-radius: 0;
$icon-base-color: #f00;
$modal-backdrop-bg: rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.5);
```

Please only add variable overrides in this file. You should not write CSS code like `.container { background: #f00 }` in this file. When running `storefront:hot` or `storefront:hot-proxy` SCSS variables will be injected dynamically by webpack. When writing selectors and properties in the `overrides.scss` the code can appear multiple times in your built CSS.

### Using Bootstrap SCSS only

The Shopware default theme is using [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) with additional custom styling.

If you want to build your theme only upon the Bootstrap SCSS you can use the `@StorefrontBootstrap` placeholder instead of the `@Storefront` bundle in the `style` section of your `theme.json`.
This gives you the ability to use the Bootstrap SCSS without the Shopware Storefront "skin". Therefore all the SCSS from `src/Storefront/Resources/app/storefront/src/scss/skin` will not be available in your theme.

```json
{
  "style": [
    "@StorefrontBootstrap",
    "app/storefront/src/scss/base.scss"
  ]
}
```
* This option can only be used in the `style` section of the `theme.json`. You must not use it in `views` or `script`.
* All theme variables like `$sw-color-brand-primary` are also available when using the Bootstrap option.
* You can only use either `@StorefrontBootstrap` or `@Storefront`. They should not be used at the same time. The `@Storefront` bundle **includes** the Bootstrap SCSS already.
