src/Docs/Resources/current/2-internals/4-plugins/080-plugin-migrations.md, before:

[titleEn]: <>(Plugin migrations)

In this guide, you will learn what migrations are and how to use them.
Migrations are PHP classes used to manage incremental and reversible database schema changes.
`Shopware` comes with a pre-built `Migration System`, to take away most of the work for you.
Throughout this guide, you will find the `$` symbol representing your command line.

## Overview

By default, Shopware 6 is looking for migration files in a directory called `Migration` relative to your plugin's
base class.

```
└── plugins
    └── PluginMigrationExample
        └── src
            ├── Migration/
            │   └── Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php
            └── PluginMigrationExample.php
```
*File structure*

As you can see there is one file in the `src/Migration` directory. Below you find a break down of what each part means.

| File Name Snippet       | Meaning                                                   |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Migration               | Each migration file has to start with Migration           |
| 1546422281              | A Timestamp used to make migrations incremental           |
| ExampleDescription      | A descriptive name for your migration                     |
| .php                    | PHP file extension                                        |


## Creating A Migration

To create a new migration for your plugin, open your `Shopware` root directory in your terminal.
The command to create a new migration for your plugin is the `database:create-migration` command.
Below you can see the command used in this example to create the migration seen above in the file structure.

```
$ ./bin/console database:create-migration -p PluginMigrationExample --name ExampleDescription
```

Below you'll find a break down of the command.

| Command Snippet                | Meaning                                                          |
|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ./bin/console                  | Calls the executable Symfony console application                 |
| database:create-migration      | The command to create a new migration                            |
| -p *your_plugin_name*          | -p creates a new migration for the plugin with the name provided |
| --name *your_descriptive_name* | Appends the provided string after the timestamp                  |

*Please note, if you create a new migration yourself the timestamp will vary.*

If you take a look at your created migration it should look similar to this:
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\PluginMigrationExample\Migration;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Connection;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\Migration\MigrationStep;

class Migration1546422281ExampleDescription extends MigrationStep
{
    public function getCreationTimestamp(): int
    {
        return 1546422281;
    }

    public function update(Connection $connection): void
    {
        // implement update
    }

    public function updateDestructive(Connection $connection): void
    {
        // implement update destructive
    }
}
```
*Migration/Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php*

As you can see your migration contains 3 methods:
* `getCreationTimestamp()`
* `update()`
* `updateDestructive()`

There is no need to change `getCreationTimestamp()`, it returns the timestamp that's also part of the file name.
In the `update()` method you implement nondestructive changes. In other words, the `update()` method should always be reversible.
The `updateDestructive()` method is the counterpart to `update()` and used for destructive none reversible changes,
like dropping columns or tables.
Below you find an example of a nondestructive migration, creating a new table for your plugin.

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\PluginMigrationExample\Migration;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Connection;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\Migration\MigrationStep;

class Migration1546422281ExampleDescription extends MigrationStep
{
    public function getCreationTimestamp(): int
    {
        return 1546422281;
    }

    public function update(Connection $connection): void
    {
        $query = <<<SQL
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `plugin_migration_example_general_settings` (
    `id`                INT             NOT NULL,
    `example_setting`   VARCHAR(255)    NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
)
    ENGINE = InnoDB
    DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4
    COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
SQL;

        $connection->executeQuery($query);
    }

    public function updateDestructive(Connection $connection): void
    {
    }
}
```
*Migration/Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php*

## Running Migrations

As you install your plugin, the `Migration` directory is added to the `MigrationCollection` and all migrations get executed.
Also if you update a plugin via the `Plugin Manager` all new migrations are executed.
If you want to execute a migration by hand as part of your development process, simply create it after you installed your plugin.
This way your plugin `Migration` directory is already registered during the install process and you can run any newly created migrations by hand,
using one of the following commands. If you lost track or want to debug an error take a look into the `migration` table in your database.

| Command                      | Arguments             | Usage                                                         |
|------------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| database:migrate             | identifier (optional) | Calls the update() methods of unhandled migrations            |
| database:migrate-destructive | identifier (optional) | Calls the updateDestructive() methods of unhandled migrations |

The `identifier` argument is used to decide which migrations should be executed.
Per default, the `identifier` is set to run `Shopware Core` migrations.
To run your plugin migrations set the `identifier` argument to your plugin identifier, in this example `PluginMigrationExample`.
If you want to be more specific, provide the migration namespace of your plugin as the `identifier` argument.
Below you can find a few working example commands.

```
$ ./bin/console database:migrate PluginMigrationExample --all
$ ./bin/console database:migrate --all PluginMigrationExample

$ ./bin/console database:migrate --all PluginMigrationExample\\Migration
$ ./bin/console database:migrate PluginMigrationExample\\Migration --all
```

## Customizing the migration path / namespace

While Shopware 6 searches for your plugin's migrations in a `Migration` directory per default,
you can manually set another directory to be considered for your plugin.

This is done by choosing another namespace for your migrations, which can be changed by overwriting your plugin's [getMigrationNamespace()](020-plugin-base-class.md#getMigrationNamespace()) method:

```php
public function getMigrationNamespace(): string
    {
        return 'Swag\BaseClass\MyMigrationNamespace';
    }
```

Since the path is read from the namespace, your Migration directory would have to be named `MyMigrationNamespace` now.

## Source

There's a GitHub repository available, containing this example source.
Check it out [here](https://github.com/shopware/swag-docs-plugin-migration-example).

Commit message:

NEXT-5398 - refactor migration system and update plugin system accordingly
Signed-off-by: Jan Philipp Pietrzyk <j.pietrzyk@shopware.com>

src/Docs/Resources/current/2-internals/4-plugins/080-plugin-migrations.md, after:

[titleEn]: <>(Plugin migrations)

In this guide, you will learn what migrations are and how to use them.
Migrations are PHP classes used to manage incremental and reversible database schema changes.
`Shopware` comes with a pre-built `Migration System`, to take away most of the work for you.
Throughout this guide, you will find the `$` symbol representing your command line.

## Overview

By default, Shopware 6 is looking for migration files in a directory called `Migration` relative to your plugin's
base class.

```
└── plugins
    └── PluginMigrationExample
        └── src
            ├── Migration/
            │   └── Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php
            └── PluginMigrationExample.php
```
*File structure*

As you can see there is one file in the `src/Migration` directory. Below you find a break down of what each part means.

| File Name Snippet       | Meaning                                                   |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| Migration               | Each migration file has to start with Migration           |
| 1546422281              | A Timestamp used to make migrations incremental           |
| ExampleDescription      | A descriptive name for your migration                     |
| .php                    | PHP file extension                                        |


## Creating A Migration

To create a new migration for your plugin, open your `Shopware` root directory in your terminal.
The command to create a new migration for your plugin is the `database:create-migration` command.
Below you can see the command used in this example to create the migration seen above in the file structure.

```
$ ./bin/console database:create-migration -p PluginMigrationExample --name ExampleDescription
```

Below you'll find a break down of the command.

| Command Snippet                | Meaning                                                          |
|--------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ./bin/console                  | Calls the executable Symfony console application                 |
| database:create-migration      | The command to create a new migration                            |
| -p *your_plugin_name*          | -p creates a new migration for the plugin with the name provided |
| --name *your_descriptive_name* | Appends the provided string after the timestamp                  |

*Please note, if you create a new migration yourself the timestamp will vary.*

If you take a look at your created migration it should look similar to this:
```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\PluginMigrationExample\Migration;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Connection;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\Migration\MigrationStep;

class Migration1546422281ExampleDescription extends MigrationStep
{
    public function getCreationTimestamp(): int
    {
        return 1546422281;
    }

    public function update(Connection $connection): void
    {
        // implement update
    }

    public function updateDestructive(Connection $connection): void
    {
        // implement update destructive
    }
}
```
*Migration/Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php*

As you can see your migration contains 3 methods:
* `getCreationTimestamp()`
* `update()`
* `updateDestructive()`

There is no need to change `getCreationTimestamp()`, it returns the timestamp that's also part of the file name.
In the `update()` method you implement nondestructive changes. In other words, the `update()` method should always be reversible.
The `updateDestructive()` method is the counterpart to `update()` and used for destructive none reversible changes,
like dropping columns or tables.
Below you find an example of a nondestructive migration, creating a new table for your plugin.

```php
<?php declare(strict_types=1);

namespace Swag\PluginMigrationExample\Migration;

use Doctrine\DBAL\Connection;
use Shopware\Core\Framework\Migration\MigrationStep;

class Migration1546422281ExampleDescription extends MigrationStep
{
    public function getCreationTimestamp(): int
    {
        return 1546422281;
    }

    public function update(Connection $connection): void
    {
        $query = <<<SQL
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `plugin_migration_example_general_settings` (
    `id`                INT             NOT NULL,
    `example_setting`   VARCHAR(255)    NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
)
    ENGINE = InnoDB
    DEFAULT CHARSET = utf8mb4
    COLLATE = utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
SQL;

        $connection->executeQuery($query);
    }

    public function updateDestructive(Connection $connection): void
    {
    }
}
```
*Migration/Migration1546422281ExampleDescription.php*

## Running Migrations manually

> **Warning:** Since this is not a portable solution, this is for testing and debugging only.

As you install your plugin, the `Migration` directory is added to a `MigrationCollection` and all migrations get executed.
Also if you update a plugin via the `Plugin Manager` all new migrations are executed.
If you want to execute a migration by hand as part of your development process, simply create it after you installed your plugin.
This way your plugin `Migration` directory is already registered during the install process and you can run any newly created migrations by hand,
using one of the following commands. If you lost track or want to debug an error take a look into the `migration` table in your database.

| Command                      | Arguments             | Usage                                                         |
|------------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| database:migrate             | identifier (optional) | Calls the update() methods of unhandled migrations            |
| database:migrate-destructive | identifier (optional) | Calls the updateDestructive() methods of unhandled migrations |

The `identifier` argument is used to decide which migrations should be executed.
Per default, the `identifier` is set to run `Shopware Core` migrations.
To run your plugin migrations set the `identifier` argument to your plugin's bundle name, in this example `PluginMigrationExample`.
Below you can find a few working example commands.

```
$ ./bin/console database:migrate PluginMigrationExample --all
$ ./bin/console database:migrate --all PluginMigrationExample
```

## Customizing the migration path / namespace

While Shopware 6 searches for your plugin's migrations in a `Migration` directory per default,
you can manually set another directory to be considered for your plugin.

This is done by choosing another namespace for your migrations, which can be changed by overwriting your plugin's [getMigrationNamespace()](020-plugin-base-class.md#getMigrationNamespace()) method:

```php
public function getMigrationNamespace(): string
    {
        return 'Swag\BaseClass\MyMigrationNamespace';
    }
```

Since the path is read from the namespace, your Migration directory would have to be named `MyMigrationNamespace` now.

## Advanced migration control

Once you got yourself accustomed to the migration process and development flow, you might want to gain finer control over the migrations executed during installation and update. For this case Shopware provides you with the necessary facilities. The `MigrationCollection` that is filled with your specific migrations only can be accessed through the `InstallContext` and all its subclasses (`UpdateContext`, `ActivateContext`, ...). A plugin must **opt-out** of automatic migration execution in order to gain control over the migrations executed.

A typical `update` method might therefore look more like this:

```php
    public function update(UpdateContext $updateContext): void
    {
        $updateContext->setAutoMigrate(false); // disable auto migration execution
        
        $migrationCollection = $updateContext->getMigrationCollection();
 
        // execute all DESTRUCTIVE migrations until and including 2019-11-01T00:00:00+00:00
        $migrationCollection->migrateDestructiveInPlace(1572566400);

        // execute all UPDATE migrations until and including 2019-12-12T09:30:51+00:00
        $migrationCollection->migrateInPlace(1576143014);
    }
```   
If you do not use the Shopware migration system an empty collection (NullObject) will be in the context.

## Source

There's a GitHub repository available, containing this example source.
Check it out [here](https://github.com/shopware/swag-docs-plugin-migration-example).
